***
### Terms Recognition:
1. improvements or worsens of competitive advantage, 

### Concepts:

#### Considerations:
- **Changes in ROIC do not, always, indicates change in moat trend** - increase in ROIC may be through undercut in invested capital, which may increase margins, however causes loss in long-term opportunities(R&D or CapEx)
	- Product cycles also influence growth, successful launch of few products at start of economic cycles means nothing to core operation of business
	- **Peer group should be evaluated to differentiate general market demand or success of company**

- Revenue Growth/Decline - company may operate in fast growing segment, however growth may slow down and competition. tempted by high growth and few barriers to entry, will intensify 
	- On contrary, business may undergo a cyclical downturn, or customers delay orders

#### Practices in identifying the moat trend
- identify moat sources for the firm by asking questions:
- ##### General questions:
	- Does company loosing or taking market share within its verticals? 
	- Are mid-cycle operating margins are higher or lower than today?
	- Are ROICs markedly higher or lower than current levels?
	- Is sector growing or shrinking in proportion to its industry? 
	- What do pricing trend looks like?
	- What are the large opportunities and threats the firm is facing?
		- Is there opportunity to extend its CA into new product lines or similar verticals 

- ##### Summary of moat questions:
	- Cost advantage:
		- Do suppliers increase/decrease their bargaining power? Can the firm amid supplier's charges in **timely and effective manner?**
		- Why firm has a unique cost structure going forward? Is it a unique process?
		- Is there a substitute products which may change cost/value ratio?(New SaaS platform, vapes to cigarettes)
	- Network Effect:
		- What are level of engagements? Is it increasing/decreasing?
		- Can customer benefit from other networks? Are competitors start up their own network?
		- How company can capture value generated by each new node in network?
	- Switching Costs:
		- Is industry under tech disruption?(Tech optimize the value node which belonged to industry; i.g mortar stores and amazon)
		- What are renewal rates and does contract term lengthening or shortening?
		- How wide is the range of features is accessible within subscription? Is it increasing/decreasing?
	- Efficient scale:
		- Looking into growth rates, will it become easier to break into the larger market for competitors over time?

#### Areas of competitive strength and weaknesses 

- **Products**
    - Standing of products, from the user’s point of view, in each market segment
    - Breadth and depth of the product line
- **Dealer/Distribution**
    - Channel coverage and quality
    - Strength of channel relationships
    - Ability to service the channels
- **Marketing and Selling**
    - Skills in each aspect of the marketing mix
    - Skills in market research and new product development
    - Training and skills of the sales force
- **Operations**
    - Manufacturing cost position—economies of scale, learning curve, newness of equipment, etc.
    - Technological sophistication of facilities and equipment
    - Flexibility of facilities and equipment
    - Proprietary know-how and unique patent or cost advantages
    - Skills in capacity addition, quality control, tooling, etc.
    - Location, including labor and transportation cost
    - Labor force climate; unionization situation
    - Access to and cost of raw materials
    - Degree of vertical integration
- **Research and Engineering**
    - Patents and copyrights
    - In-house capability in the research and development process (product research, process research, basic research, development, imitation, etc.)
    - R&D staff skills in terms of creativity, simplicity, quality, reliability, etc.
    - Access to outside sources of research and engineering (e.g., suppliers, customers, contractors)
- **Overall Costs**
    - Overall relative costs
    - Shared costs or activities with other business units
    - Where the competitor is generating the scale or other factors that are key to its cost position
- **Financial Strength**
    - Cash flow
    - Short- and long-term borrowing capacity (relative debt/equity ratio)
    - New equity capacity over the foreseeable future
    - Financial management ability, including negotiation, raising capital, credit, inventories, and accounts receivable
- **Organization**
    - Unity of values and clarity of purpose in the organization
    - Organizational fatigue based on recent requirements placed on it
    - Consistency of organizational arrangements with strategy
- **General Managerial Ability**
    - Leadership qualities of CEO; ability of CEO to motivate
    - Ability to coordinate particular functions or groups of functions (e.g., manufacturing with research coordination)
    - Age, training, and functional orientation of management
    - Depth of management
    - Flexibility and adaptability of management
- **Corporate Portfolio**
    - Ability of corporation to support planned changes in all business units in terms of financial and other resources
    - Ability of corporation to supplement or reinforce business unit strengths
- **Other**
    - Special treatment by or access to government bodies
    - Personnel turnover