***
### Terms Recognition:
1. improvements or worsens of competitive advantage, 

### Concepts:

#### Considerations:
- **Changes in ROIC do not, always, indicates change in moat trend** - increase in ROIC may be through undercut in invested capital, which may increase margins, however causes loss in long-term opportunities(R&D or CapEx)
	- Product cycles also influence growth, successful launch of few products at start of economic cycles means nothing to core operation of business
	- **Peer group should be evaluated to differentiate general market demand or success of company**

- Revenue Growth/Decline - company may operate in fast growing segment, however growth may slow down and competition. tempted by high growth and few barriers to entry, will intensify 
	- On contrary, business may undergo a cyclical downturn, or customers delay orders

#### Practices in identifying the moat trend
- identify moat sources for the firm by asking questions:
- ##### General questions:
	- Does company loosing or taking market share within its verticals? 
	- Are mid-cycle operating margins are higher or lower than today?
	- Are ROICs markedly higher or lower than current levels?
	- Is sector growing or shrinking in proportion to its industry? 
	- What do pricing trend looks like?
	- What are the large opportunities and threats the firm is facing?
		- Is there opportunity to extend its CA into new product lines or similar verticals 

- ##### Summary of moat questions:
	- Cost advantage:
		- Do suppliers increase/decrease their bargaining power? Can the firm amid supplier's charges in **timely and effective manner?**
		- Why firm has a unique cost structure going forward? Is it a unique process?
		- Is there a substitute products which may change cost/value ratio?(New SaaS platform, vapes to cigarettes)
	- Network Effect:
		- What are level of engagements? Is it increasing/decreasing?
		- Can customer benefit from other networks? Are competitors start up their own network?
		- How company can capture value generated by each new node in network?
	- Switching Costs:
		- Is industry under tech disruption?(Tech optimize the value node which belonged to industry; i.g mortar stores and amazon)
		- What are renewal rates and does contract term lengthening or shortening?
		- How wide is the range of features is accessible within subscription? Is it increasing/decreasing?
	- Efficient scale:
		- Looking into growth rates, will it become easier to break into the larger market for competitors over time?





9:30 Tuesday 10th  (365) 804-0293  1055 Bloor Street
 

905-799-7700 medical center 


(647) 956-0938 3045 Queen Frederica Drive

(289) 813-8238 3370 Havenwood D; 10 am